First, train in the preliminaries.
Regard all dharmas as dreams; although experiences may seem solid, they are passing memories.
Examine the nature of unborn awareness.
Self-liberate even the antidote.
Rest in the nature of alaya, the essence, the present moment.
In postmeditation, be a child of illusion.
Sending and taking should be practiced alternately. These two should ride the breath.
Three objects, three poisons, three roots of virtue.
In all activities, train with slogans.
Begin the sequence of sending and taking with yourself.
When the world is filled with evil, transform all mishaps into the path of bodhi.
Drive all blames into one.
Be grateful to everyone.
Seeing confusion as the four kayas is unsurpassable shunyata protection.
Four practices are the best of methods.
Whatever you meet unexpectedly, join with meditation.
Practice the five strengths, the condensed heart instructions.
The mahayana instruction for ejection of consciousness at death is the five strengths: how you conduct yourself is important.
All dharma agrees at one point -- All Buddhist teachings are about lessening the ego, lessening one's self-absorption.
Of the two witnesses, hold the principal one.
Always maintain only a joyful mind.
If you can practice even when distracted, you are well trained.
Always abide by the three basic principles -- Dedication to your practice, refraining from outrageous conduct, developing patience.
Change your attitude, but remain natural.
Don't talk about injured limbs.
Don't ponder others.
Work with the greatest defilements first.
Abandon any hope of fruition.
Abandon poisonous food.
Don't be so predictable.
Don't malign others.
Don't wait in ambush.
Don't bring things to a painful point.
Don't transfer the ox's load to the cow.
Don't try to be the fastest.
Don't act with a twist.
Don't turn gods into demons.
Don't seek others' pain as the limbs of your own happiness.
All activities should be done with one intention.
Correct all wrongs with one intention.
Two activities: one at the beginning, one at the end.
Whichever of the two occurs, be patient.
Observe these two, even at the risk of your life.
Train in the three difficulties.
Take on the three principal causes: the teacher, the dharma, the sangha.
Pay heed that the three never wane: gratitude towards one's teacher, appreciation of the dharma and correct conduct.
Keep the three inseparable: body, speech, and mind.
Train without bias in all areas. It is crucial always to do this pervasively and wholeheartedly.
Always meditate on whatever provokes resentment.
Don't be swayed by external circumstances.
This time, practice the main points: others before self, dharma, and awakening compassion.
Don't misinterpret.
Don't vacillate.
Train wholeheartedly.
Liberate yourself by examining and analyzing: Know your own mind with honesty and fearlessness.
Don't wallow in self-pity.
Don't be jealous.
Don't be frivolous.
Don't expect applause.
